README.md, before:

# Air-Pollution-Analysis

## Analysis of air pollution trends in European capital cities

  Analysing and interpreting air pollution trends and mean annual concentrations of three pollutants- PM2.5, PM10 and NO2 in European capital cities during the period 2017–2021

  Data source: WHO Ambient Air Quality Database (V6.1) - 2024

  Link: https://www.who.int/publications/m/item/who-ambient-air-quality-database-(update-jan-2024)

## Tools used 
   
   Python, MySQL, Tableau and Github

## Reasons due to which the project is useful
   1. Air pollution remains to be a major health risk in many capitals of European countries.
   2. Helps in understading the air pollution in cities during a specific period of time.
   3. Uses data from credible institution: WHO.
   4. Made through data analysis tools & techniques giving unbiased and accurate insights.

## Key questions

   1. What type of pollution trends are observed in European capital cities during 2017-21?
   2. Which cities show progress between the initial and final year?
   3. Which cities consistently show pollution levels above WHO guidelines for all three pollutants in each year during 2017–2021?
   4. Which cities showed pollution levels below WHO guidelines for PM2.5 and PM10?
   5. What are trends and pollutant concentrations in Northern and Western Europe?

## Data Notes & Limitations

   1. Analysis includes capitals of countries in European Region as per WHO Database. Most countries are included but not all of them.
   2. Results are based on the available WHO data for different cities and years.
   3. Analysis is done with 75% temporal coverage for all three pollutants.
   4. Results are used for analysing trends, pollutant concentration and regions. They are not used for comparing countries and ranking the cities.

## Key Insights

The key insights and results of the analysis are in Tableau Story. Also, below there are images showing insights.

Summary(during 2017–2021)
1. Many capitals showed slow and progressive reduction in PM2.5
2. The highest reductions were in NO2 concentrations, particularly during 2020
3. Many cities pollutant concentrations were above WHO air quality guidelines
4. The cities which progressed between the initial and final year are Bucharest, Prague, Vienna, Rome, Berlin and Vilnius.

## How to start

  1. Download the WHO dataset using the given link
  2. Check the python file from air pollution.py used for cleaning and filtering
  3. Run the SQL queries from pollution.sql
  4. Go to Tableau Story to understand and interact with maps and graphs

Link to Tableau Story: https://public.tableau.com/views/AirPollutionTrendsinEuropeanCapitals20172021/AirPollutionTrends?:language=en-US&:sid=&:redirect=auth&:display_count=n&:origin=viz_share_link

## Maintenance & contribution

Project is maintained by Dhruv Yadav. It is a data analysis project. All opinions and suggestions are accepted.

Commit message:

Update README with clearer insights and image references
Clarified the description of key insights and added references to images.

README.md, after:

# Air-Pollution-Analysis

## Analysis of air pollution trends in European capital cities

  Analysing and interpreting air pollution trends and mean annual concentrations of three pollutants- PM2.5, PM10 and NO2 in European capital cities during the period 2017–2021

  Data source: WHO Ambient Air Quality Database (V6.1) - 2024

  Link: https://www.who.int/publications/m/item/who-ambient-air-quality-database-(update-jan-2024)

## Tools used 
   
   Python, MySQL, Tableau and Github

## Reasons due to which the project is useful
   1. Air pollution remains to be a major health risk in many capitals of European countries.
   2. Helps in understading the air pollution in cities during a specific period of time.
   3. Uses data from credible institution: WHO.
   4. Made through data analysis tools & techniques giving unbiased and accurate insights.

## Key questions

   1. What type of pollution trends are observed in European capital cities during 2017-21?
   2. Which cities show progress between the initial and final year?
   3. Which cities consistently show pollution levels above WHO guidelines for all three pollutants in each year during 2017–2021?
   4. Which cities showed pollution levels below WHO guidelines for PM2.5 and PM10?
   5. What are trends and pollutant concentrations in Northern and Western Europe?

## Data Notes & Limitations

   1. Analysis includes capitals of countries in European Region as per WHO Database. Most countries are included but not all of them.
   2. Results are based on the available WHO data for different cities and years.
   3. Analysis is done with 75% temporal coverage for all three pollutants.
   4. Results are used for analysing trends, pollutant concentration and regions. They are not used for comparing countries and ranking the cities.

## Key Insights

The key insights and results of the analysis are in Tableau Story. Also, images Insights 1 and Insights 2 show insights.
(*To access the Tableau Story file in the repository, Tableau Desktop Public Edition is needed*)

Summary(during 2017–2021)
1. Many capitals showed slow and progressive reduction in PM2.5
2. The highest reductions were in NO2 concentrations, particularly during 2020
3. Many cities pollutant concentrations were above WHO air quality guidelines
4. The cities which progressed between the initial and final year are Bucharest, Prague, Vienna, Rome, Berlin and Vilnius.

Image files: Insights 1.png , Insights 2.png

## How to start

  1. Download the WHO dataset using the given link
  2. Check the python file from air pollution.py used for cleaning and filtering
  3. Run the SQL queries from pollution.sql
  4. Go to Tableau Story to understand and interact with maps and graphs

Link to Tableau Story: https://public.tableau.com/views/AirPollutionTrendsinEuropeanCapitals20172021/AirPollutionTrends?:language=en-US&:sid=&:redirect=auth&:display_count=n&:origin=viz_share_link

## Maintenance & contribution

Project is maintained by Dhruv Yadav. It is a data analysis project. All opinions and suggestions are accepted.
